Let's see MVC in action.
I will show you the Model View Controller in Trackzilla.
Let's look at Trackzilla more closely.
You're already familiar with the domain entities Application,
Release, and Ticket.
Let's look more closely at the controller layer,
which is found in the web package, and it' TzaController so double‑click on that.
This single controller is responsible for handling all incoming HTTP requests.
So, for example, requests to retrieve applications,
retrieve tickets, retrieve releases,
and so all HTTP requests are mapped, in this case to the service layer.
So we see that here in releaseService, and we're calling listReleases.
The service layer usually contains the business logic,
and it retrieves the data using the repository layer,
which you're already familiar with, and it sends that data back to the view.
So let's scroll back up and look more closely at this controller.
Notice here on line 11, the @Controller annotation.
@Controller is used to mark classes as a Spring MVC controller,
and this simply means Spring will consider this class
when handling incoming web requests.
So let's scroll down and look at this retrieveApplications method.
The @GetMapping annotation on line 32 provides routing information.
It tells Spring that any HTTP requests with this particular path,
/applications, whenever a request like that comes in,
to automatically map it to this retrieveApplications method.
And in this retrieveApplications method,
all it's doing is retrieving the list of applications from
the database and setting that as the model.
And remember, the model is what gets displayed on the view.
How is Spring MVC configured?
Well, typically,
you would add the @EnableWebMVC annotation to
import the Spring MVC configuration,
but Spring Boot adds it automatically when it sees the
necessary dependencies on the class path,
and then auto‑configuration kicks in.
So we've talked about the model layer and the controller layer.
Now let's talk about the view layer.
The view layer is a simple front‑end using Thymeleaf,
which is a templating engine that provides support for serving HTML.
So here, underneath the resources folder,
you'll see static resources, but then you'll see templates,
and underneath templates, you'll see several files and then you'll see fragments.
Thymeleaf is included in the Trackzilla application by
adding the Thymeleaf dependency.
So if you hop over to the Maven pom file and you
scroll all the way down to line 51, you will see this dependency here,
spring‑boot‑starter‑thymeleaf.
That makes Thymeleaf available.
Normally with Spring, you would have to register a ViewResolver bean,
which would enable you to render models in the browser,
but with Spring Boot, that's not necessary.
Once Thymeleaf is enabled, there's really no extra configuration necessary,
but if needed, there are a few configuration options for Thymeleaf.
So let me show you what I'm doing.
Navigate to the application.properties file.
I've added a few properties here.
On line 9, this template‑loader‑path,
this is the path where the files are loaded,
so classpath:templates.
And that's this folder here that I showed you, templates.
On line 10, I'm using this thymeleaf.suffix.html.
This specifies the suffix that gets appended to view names when building a URL.
And then here on line 11, I'm disabling the template caching.
They are fragments so there's one fragment is the navbar.
That's what's shared across components, and notice here,
the applications template file.
I've launched the application.
So let's navigate to Trackzilla.
I've already deployed the application, just navigate to localhost:8080,
and this is a look at Trackzilla.
If you're curious about the look and feel of the Trackzilla application,
I chose to use Bootstrap.
I'm a big fan of Bootstrap.
It's easy to use and its components look great.
So this menu bar here, this is a Bootstrap component.
And let's view the list of applications.
So this table here is also a Bootstrap component.
So for now on the Trackzilla menu, we are retrieving the list of applications. We can also see a list of tickets, and we can also see a list of releases.